combinations on a set of parental
sequences and selects the bestsuited
enzyme combinations to yield
fragments within a user-specified size
range. Using a database of RE recognition
sites compiled based on the New
England Biolabs REBASE database
(http://rebase.neb.com) (8), the program
finds suitable RE sets to fragment
the input parental DNA sequences
according to the user-defined minimum
and maximum fragment lengths.
REcut also reports on REs useful for
individual parents, which allows the
user to individually cut parents with
low sequence identity.
For RE-mediated DNA shuffling,
two or more combinations of REs
are needed to generate sets of DNA
fragments with overlapping ends to
allow ORF reassembly by PCR. Thus,
fully or partially overlapping cleavage
sites should be avoided. The minimum
number of overlapping bases required
for annealing can be set by the user
(e.g., for parents that share 80%
sequence identity and 50% GC content,
self-priming of 2 overlapping fragments
would require at least 19 bases of
overlap to ensure proper annealing at
a Tann of ~ 45°C, as estimated using
the formula of Marmur) (9). From the
preview page, users can input the
minimum overlap and query REcut to
select the most appropriate combination
of RE sets. A table of minimum
bases required for annealing based on
the degree of parental sequence identity
is provided for the convenience of users
in the online help page. An example
of the output provided is shown in
Supplementary Figures S1 and S2.
Alternatively, users can also select RE
sets manually (e.g., according to the
enzymes at hand in the laboratory)
and let REcut verify their complementarity
using the manual option (Supplementary
Figure S3).
The second part of the suite, Xover,
analyzes DNA and protein crossover
patterns generated by DNA shuffling
or any other DNA recombination
technique. Chimeric mutant DNA or
protein sequences are submitted in
FASTA format along with the corresponding
parental sequences. Xover
aligns input sequences automatically
using Clustal Omega (version 1.2) (10).
If pre-aligned sequences are provided,
the gaps in the sequences are taken
into consideration during the alignment.
At each position in the alignment,
the residue present in the chimera is
compared with that present in each
parent. If a match is found at the corresponding
position in n parents, then
the probability that the residue in the
chimera is inherited from one of those
parents is scored as 1/n.
In the recombination plot generated
by Xover, each chimeric sequence is
represented by a set of lines of dots,